<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" 
      xmlns:rdfs="http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#"
      xmlns:skos="http://www.w3.org/2004/02/skos/core#"
      xmlns:scenario="https://dstl.github.io/eleatics/argumentation/iif/scenarios.xhtml#">
	<head>
		<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
		<link rel="stylesheet" href="master.css"/>
		<link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/>
		<meta name="DC.identifier" content="IIF Scenarios"/>
		<meta name="DC.date" content="2022-06-01"/>
		<title>Scenarios</title>
	</head>
	<body>
    
    <div about="http://dbpedia.org/resource/Scenario_planning" rev="skos:broader">
    
    <article id="perpetual" about="scenario:perpetual" typeof="skos:Concept">
    <h2 property="skos:prefLabel">Perpetual Motion</h2>
    <div property="skos:definition">
      <p>
        Perpetual Motion describes a society driven by constant information,
        consumption and competition. In this world, instant communication
        and continuing globalisation have fuelled growth: demand for travel
        remains strong.
      </p>
      <p>
        New, cleaner, fuel technologies are increasingly popular. Road use is
        causing less environmental damage, although the volume and speed
        of traffic remains high. Aviation still relies on carbon fuels and remains
        expensive. It is increasingly replaced by ‘telepresencing’ technology
        (for business) and rapid train systems (for travel).
      </p>
    </div>
    </article>

    <article id="urban" about="scenario:urban" typeof="skos:Concept">
    <h2 property="skos:prefLabel">Urban Colonies</h2>
    <div property="skos:definition">
      <p>
	In Urban Colonies, investment in technology primarily focuses on
	minimising environmental impacts. In this world, good environmental
	practice is at the heart of the UK’s economic and social policies; sustainable
	buildings, distributed power generation and new urban planning policies
	have created compact, sustainable cities.
    </p>
    <p>
	Transport is permitted only if green and clean – car use is still energyexpensive and is restricted. Public transport – electric and low-energy – is
	efficient and widely used.
    </p>
    <p>
	Competitive cities have the IT infrastructure needed to link high-value
	knowledge businesses, but there is poor integration of IT supporting
	transport systems. Rural areas have become more isolated, effectively
	acting as food and bio-fuel sources for cities.
	Consumption has fallen. Resource use is now a fundamental part of the tax
	system and disposable items are less popular.
    </p>
    </div>
    </article>

    <article id="tribal" about="scenario:tribal" typeof="skos:Concept">
    <h2 property="skos:prefLabel">Tribal Trading</h2>
    <div property="skos:definition">
      <p>
	Tribal Trading describes a world that has been through a sharp and savage
	energy shock. The world has stabilised, but only after a global recession has
	left millions unemployed. The global economic system is severely damaged
	and infrastructure is falling into disrepair.
      </p>
      <p>
	Long-distance travel is a luxury that few can afford and, for most people, the
	world has shrunk to their own community. Cities have declined and local
	food production and services have increased. Canals and sea-going vessels
	carry freight: the rail network is worthwhile only for high-value long-distance
	cargoes and trips. There are still some cars, but local transport is typically by
	bike and by horse.
      </p>
      <p>
	There are local conflicts over resources: lawlessness and mistrust are high.
	The state does what it can – but its power has been eroded.
     </p>
    </div>
    </article>

    <article id="intentions" about="scenario:intentions" typeof="skos:Concept">
    <h2 property="skos:prefLabel">Good Intentions</h2>
    <div property="skos:definition">
      <p>
	Good Intentions describes a world in which the need to reduce carbon
	emissions constrains personal mobility. A tough national surveillance system
	ensures that people travel only if they have sufficient carbon ‘points’.
	Intelligent cars monitor and report on the environmental cost of journeys. 
	In-car systems adjust speed to minimise emissions. Traffic volumes have
	fallen and mass transportation is used more widely.
      </p>
      <p>
	Businesses have adopted energy-efficient practices: they use sophisticated
	wireless identification and tracking systems to optimise logistics and
	distribution. Some rural areas pool community carbon credits for local
	transport provision but many are struggling.
      </p>
      <p>
	There are concerns that the world has not yet done enough to respond to
	the human activity which has caused the environmental damage. Airlines
	continue to exploit loopholes in the carbon enforcement framework. The
	market has failed to provide a realistic alternative energy source. 
      </p>
    </div>
    </article>
	    
    </div>
    
  </body>
</html>
