<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:rdfs="http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#"
	xmlns:aif="http://www.arg.dundee.ac.uk/aif#"
      	xmlns:toulmin="urn:eleatics:toulmin:"
	xmlns:this="urn:eleatics:scheme:kac:">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
<link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" />
<meta name="DC.identifier" content="scheme/KAC" />
<meta name="DC.date" content="2021-06-14" />
<title>Key Assumption Check</title>
</head>
<body>

<article>

<h3>Key Assumption Check</h3>

<p about="toulmin:infers" typeof="aif:RA-node">This scheme asserts that an unsupported <em>CLAIM</em> in an argument map 
is <span about="toulmin:claim" typeof="aif:I-node" property="aif:claimText">an assumption</span> that must be justified. The <em>QUALIFIER</em> 
is <em about="toulmin:qualifier" typeof="aif:I-node" property="aif:claimText">presumably</em>. 
The <em resource="toulmin:data" property="aif:Premise">DATA</em> for the scheme is <span about="this:DATA" typeof="aif:I-node" property="aif:claimText">an 
unstated premise</span> (which is incidentally itself an assumption) that implies that <em resource="this:CLAIM" property="aif:Conclusion">CLAIM</em> 
is <em resource="toulmin:qualifier" property="aif:Premise">presumably</em> a valid assumption.</p>

<p>
The <em>critical questions</em> are:
</p>

<ul about="toulmin:qualifier" rev="aif:Conclusion">

<li about="this:CA1" typeof="aif:CA-node">
	<p about="this:CA1" rel="aif:Premise">
	<span about="urn:eleatics:text:A68702FF4042D4C431B8EFC585877B67" typeof="aif:I-node" property="aif:claimText">How confident are you that this assumption is correct?</span> 
	<span about="urn:eleatics:text:A06747AA22E8AEED05819BEBD4AD5C30" typeof="aif:I-node" property="aif:claimText">What explains your degree of confidence?</span>
	</p>
</li>

<li about="this:CA2" typeof="aif:CA-node" rel="aif:Premise">
<p about="urn:eleatics:text:6207364C261E9DEC8D828DA064CE2147" typeof="aif:I-node" property="aif:claimText">What circumstances or information might undermine this assumption?</p>
</li>

<li about="this:CA3" typeof="aif:CA-node" rel="aif:Premise">
<p about="urn:eleatics:text:C549CBE58F94BD49FBBBF1A9E064CFB0" typeof="aif:I-node" property="aif:claimText">Could this assumption have been true in the past, but less so now?</p>
</li>

</ul>

<p>
The scheme has no <em>WARRANT</em> and hence no <em>BACKING</em>. The only possible rebuttal is an 
assertion that <em>CLAIM</em> is an invalid assumption.
</p>

<h4>Notes</h4>
<!-- for explanatory notes - avoid adding any semantic mark-up  -->

<p>
Evaluation of this scheme gives just one extension, where the critical questions are acceptable and <em>CLAIM</em> is unacceptable (an invalid assumption). The 
assumption can only be made valid by "answering" each of the critical questions with an argument that undermines or undercuts it. If all questions are answered, 
then there is no attack on the inference that <em>CLAIM</em> is a valid assumption, and the scheme evaluates to a single extension with <em>CLAIM</em>
skeptically acceptable.
</p>

<p>
The critical questions under the first bullet point form a <em>coordinative</em> argument. This argument can be defeated by answering either question. 
</p>

</article>

</body>
</html>
