<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:skos="http://www.w3.org/2004/02/skos/core#" xmlns:this="https://dstl.github.io/eleatics/argumentation/examples/fortitude/sites.xhtml#" xmlns:aif="http://www.arg.dundee.ac.uk/aif#" xmlns:rdfs="http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#">
	<head>
		<link rel="stylesheet" href="hypothesis.css"/>
		<title>Fortitude (South)</title>
	</head>
	<body>
		<p>
		This is testing the application of argumentation to <a href="https://www.cia.gov/library/center-for-the-study-of-intelligence/csi-publications/books-and-monographs/psychology-of-intelligence-analysis/art11.html">Analysis of Competing Hypotheses (ACH)</a>, using the WW2 operation <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operation_Fortitude#Fortitude_South_2">Fortitude South</a> as an example. 
		</p>
		<p>Following the method...</p>

		<h1>Where will the main Allied invasion land?</h1>

		<article>

		<ol>

			<li>
			<h3>Identify the possible hypotheses to be considered</h3>
			<p>
			See <a href="hypotheses.xhtml">here</a> for  list of hypotheses, and some rationale for selecting two to take forward.
			</p>
			</li>

			<li>
			<h3>Make a list of significant evidence and arguments</h3>
			<p>
			See <a href="evidence.xhtml">here</a> for  list of <em>information</em>, we'll use as evidence in assessing hypotheses. This is a 
			working document that we can modify and extend as we go.
			</p>
			</li>
			
			<li>
			<h3>Prepare a matrix with hypotheses along the top and evidence down the side</h3>
			<p>
			See <a href="matrix-at-3.xhtml">here</a> for the initial matrix.
			</p>
			<h4>Analyze the "diagnosticity"</h4>
			<p>It's not the existence of the army groups <em>FUSAG</em> and <em>21AG</em> that is diagnostic, but their location: <em>FUSAGLOC</em> and <em>21AGLOC</em>. 
			<em>SIGINT</em> and <em>RECON</em> serve only to determine the locations of the army groups, so could be considered subordinate arguments already accounted for 
			by <em>FUSAGLOC</em> and <em>21AGLOC</em>. Similarly, <em>PATTON</em> serves only to identify <em>FUSAG</em> as the primary invasion force, so is also subordinate to 
			<em>FUSAGLOC</em>. We can collect all these items of evidence together under the single heading: Order of Battle (<em>ORBAT</em>). This will be consistent with <em>Pas de Calais</em> 
			and inconsistent with <em>Normandy</em>, and we need to capture <a href="orbat.xhtml">the subordinate argument</a> justifying that conclusion. 	
			</p>
			</li>
			
			<li>
			<h3>Refine the matrix</h3>
			<p>
			See <a href="matrix-at-4.xhtml">here</a> for the refined matrix.
			</p>
			<p>This now includes <em>ORBAT</em>, as discussed in the previous step. <em>VSITES</em> has been removed as it is considered unimportant, 
			and we add another item to the information list to record this decision.</p>
			</li>
			
			<li>
			<h3>Draw tentative conclusions about the likelihood of each hypothesis</h3>
			<p>
			On the face of it, <em>Pas de Calais</em> seems the much more likely option. 
			</p>
			<p>
			The method says to proceed by disproving rather than proving hypothesis. There isn't anything we can clearly disprove a this stage, but if we 
			had carried forward all the hypotheses from step 1, we might reasonably reduce the list to just two at this step.
			</p>
			<p>
			This is also the point at which to consider how much weight to put on individual items of evidence when considering the likelihood of a hypothesis. 
			We have no indication of strength of consistency or inconsistency in our matrix (just a single plus or minus) - but various schemes can be imagined...
			</p>
			</li>
			
			<li>
			<h3>Analyze how sensitive your conclusion is to a few critical items of evidence</h3>
			<p>
			<em>ORBAT</em> is probably the most critical; but this is a conclusion based on a number of other items of evidence that consistently support each other, and backed up 
			by <em>SPIES</em> and <em>AIRPLAN</em>. 
			<em>STRONGPOINT</em> and <em>SHORTEST</em> are incontrovertible, and <em>PORT</em> is a seemingly sound logisitical judgement.
			</p>
			
			<p>
			This step in the process is the point at which Heur suggests you consider denial and deception. As things stand, this analysis represents the Axis view of the world. 
			However, Fortitude South was a deception operation, so we can equally cast this as the Allied model of the Axis view of the world - put together as part of a deception plan.	
			</p>
			</li>
			
			<li>
			<h3>Report conclusions</h3>
			<p>
			This is about conveying a balanced judgement to decision makers. Something like the <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stephen_Toulmin#The_Toulmin_model_of_argument">Toulmin model of argument</a> 
			might be useful here. 
			</p>
			</li>
			
			<li>
			<h3>Identify milestones for future observation</h3>
			<p>
			For this example, the future observations are just those that are the normal business of military intelligence. However, it's one thing to record 
			what new observations would make you change your mind, and another thing to be alert to those events when they happen, and trace them back to your 
			original analysis. This is where recording information as linked data has benefits.
			</p>
			</li>
			
		</ol>
			
		</article>

	
	</body>
</html>